Rescuers have been digging
through sand and debris,
found a camp for displaced Palestinians
after an overnight strike
by Israeli forces left
scores of people
dead, wounded or missing.
The Israeli military says it
struck Hamas terrorists
operating command
center embedded
in the humanitarian safe
zone in Khan Yunis.
Hamas denies its fighters were present.
Civil Gaza civil defense officials say
entire families
disappeared into the sand.
The UN agency for Palestinian refugees
says civilians in the alma
area had no way to escape.
If you try and picture
the area,
these are the most crowded surroundings
you could imagine.
There's barely room to walk
in between tents
that are crowded on the beaches.
It was late at night.
Colleagues heard what they believe
was with the strikes
and and and just absolutely devastating.
No way
whatsoever that
the civilians in these areas
were able to protect themselves.
While Israeli forces
have previously here is almost
in their pursuit of Hamas commanders,
a strike in
mid-July killed at least 90 Palestinians.
Or for more.
CNN's Matthew Chance,
monitoring this from
Tel Aviv in Israel and
I know that the detail still coming in.
But what more do we know about this
strike in an area?
As I say, previously struck
by the IDF in pursuit,
they say, of Hamas
terrorists back in July.
Well, Becky, I mean, first thing,
first thing you can notice,
one of the first things you notice as we
look at the video
and the images that are coming
out of the Amira Sea
region
in the Gaza Strip
is that this was a massive attack.
I mean, the
the weaponry that was involved
is extremely powerful.
Clearly,
some of the craters
that have been left
by the strikes are seven meters deep.
And so an extraordinary amount of damage
has been caused
in what would have been a densely
populated sort of area
humanitarian zone in the Gaza Strip.
And of course,
civilians and ordinary people are again
paying that very high price.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah,
there's rescue workers
scrambled for survivors.
Eyewitnesses
say the Israeli strikes targeted
what was meant to be
a safe zone in the southern Gaza Strip,
ripping through tents
and makeshift shelters,
leaving deep craters.
Dozens of killed and injured
people, Judy.
And they told us this area was safe,
says this man.
I swear
the people here were just normal,
he says, not fighters.
And by daylight
you can see the extent
of the destruction.
Israel's
military says
it conducted
a precise strike on Hamas terrorists,
operating a command and control center
inside this humanitarian zone,
and IDF statement says
prior to the strike, numerous steps
were taken to mitigate
the risk of harming civilians.
But this was a heavily populated area
and civilians were caught up
in the powerful blasts.
So many.
This man says his two daughters
were completely buried under the sand.
Only one survived, he says, and he says
he found the body parts of his neighbors
strewn around.
This 12 year old girl is nursing
a broken shoulder,
suffered when her tent collapsed,
she says,
trapping her and her mother inside.
Good thing
I was scared
because the strikes were so close,
she says.
A long walk for
his rail accuses Hamas of using civilians
as human
shields, and insists
the Israeli military
takes extensive measures
to enable civilians in Gaza
to avoid combat zones.
But there's little real security
in this brutal war.
Well, Becky,
as you mentioned,
this exact humanitarian zone,
this camp had been struck
before back in July
with Palestinian health officials
saying that 90 people were killed back
then, Israeli military
saying they were targeting
Hamas militants.
But the health ministry in Gaza,
which is controlled by Hamas, of course,
saying that
these half of that figure
were women and children.
So again, underlining
just what a poor state of security exists
inside the Gaza Strip.
Matthew,
meantime, the IDF has said
an investigation
has been launched into the death last
week of an American
killed in the West Bank.
Now, the US secretary of state
has just weighed in on that.
So I want you and our viewers
just to have a listen to what
Anthony Blinken has just said.
No one,
no one
should be shot
and killed for attending a protest.
No one
should have to put their life at risk
just for freely expressing their views.
in our judgment, Israeli security forces
need to make some fundamental changes
in the way that
they operate in the West Bank,
including changes
to their rules of engagement.
Well, I assume we haven't yet
had an IDF statement
in response to Anthony Blinken.
His words,
which were in the past couple of hours.
But what are the IDF
saying at this point?
They've said that they've launched
the investigation.
Do we have results of that?
the investigation has been launched,
certainly.
to try and get to the bottom of it.
There's been a sort of
preliminary announcement
by the Israeli Defense Forces
saying that they believe that
the killing of this American
Turkish activist, Aisha,
or Ezgi AG, was unintentional.
And indirect.
and they said that
actually what they've learned
is that that
the shots were fired
at one of the protesters,
that would have been
had been hurling stones and burning tires
in front of Israeli forces, in the West
Bank.
but, you know, we're
expecting more information
to come out in the hours ahead.
There's going to be a briefing shortly
with the, the chief spokesperson
for the Israeli Defense Force.
And so we'll get some more, more clarity.
But clearly, the the United States
Secretary of State,
Antony Blinken, they're not happy at all,
that, you know, another American.
And there's been a couple
who have been killed in the West Bank
while protesting.
To recap what he said.
And no one should be killed
for attending a protest.
And, of course,
he called on Israel later on,
to fundamentally change the way
it operates inside the West Bank.
And so signs there
that the United States is
being increasingly critical
of how Israel operates.